So now that we understand a little bit more about
Kinesis Data Streams and Kinesis Firehose,
let's compare the two different options to see when we
might want to use one over the other.
This will be a really important part if you end up deciding to use
these in your own applications or you end up taking an AWS
certification exam that compares the two options.
First,
you might want to use Kinesis Firehose if you're okay with
having a one‑minute delay for your data.
Now it's possible the data might be delivered more rapidly
than that if you quickly fill up the buffer inside of the
Kinesis Firehose with that buffer size.
However,
it is possible that even if you set the minimum interval for Kinesis Firehose,
the data does take 60 seconds to process through your Kinesis Firehose system.
With Kinesis Data Streams, however, you might want the data in near real time,
and you could use Kinesis Data Streams to help process the
data in that near real‑time fashion.
With Kinesis Firehose,
you're going to get a more managed service by AWS where you don't have
to deal with any of the underlying infrastructure.
Now this is somewhat applicable to Kinesis Data Streams,
but you're going to be able to control the capacity for
yourself when you're using that service.
When you're dealing with the shards and the
sharding of your Kinesis Data Streams,
you're effectively determining how much capacity you want and
when you want to increase or decrease that.
Kinesis Firehose also only supports specific destinations.
And if you're not able to use those destinations in a
way that suits your application, it might not be the best fit for you.
Now with Kinesis Data Streams,
you can support multiple data consumers and process that
data in really any way you'd like.
Now this isn't to say that Kinesis Firehose can't deliver data to other
places if you add other layers of your application.
For example, if you send data from Kinesis Firehose to S3,
you could then trigger events based on that data landing in S3 and use
things like Lambda functions or EC2 services to move that data basically
anywhere you want and do anything you want with it.
But it's still limited in terms of its configured destinations.
So in addition to this,
Kinesis Firehose can only use Lambda for data transformations,
unless you write your own application layer after
everything's ended up in something like S3.
Kinesis Data Streams, however,
will allow multiple different kinds of consumers
that can process the data streams.
And they can process them in many different languages and aren't bound to
be only inside of the AWS Lambda execution environment.
With Kinesis Firehose,
it'll also automatically retry its deliveries to your destinations,
contrasting the Kinesis Data Streams policy of having 24
hours to 7 days of data retention,
where you'll be able to go back and update your own consumers in order to
make sure that they're processing the data correctly.
Now keep in mind, if you're processing for Kinesis Firehose fails,
you'll also be pretty limited in how long you have to fix that.
So make sure that your processing is set up correctly and you're monitoring
any errors when you're using either of these options.
Now let's take a look at everything we've done inside of this module.
We started by learning some basic concepts about Kinesis Firehose.
Then we learned about Firehose's producers and the destinations that it offers.
From there,
we learned how we could transform data using Kinesis Firehose and AWS Lambda.
After that, we actually did a demo,
and we learned how to use Kinesis Data Streams to send data
into Kinesis Firehose and then have that be processed by
AWS Lambda and output to S3.
Now this let us change the JSON file into a CSV file for any
people in our financial part of our organization who might be
more comfortable with that format.
And, finally,
we just looked at how Firehose and Data Streams differ and what
cases we might want to use one over the other.
So, hopefully,
you'll stay tuned for the next module where we'll be looking more at using
data transfer inside of AWS with Snowball and Direct Connect, two good options for when you need to transfer larger amounts of data into AWS.